# Leading Systems LSJS

**LSJS was designed and is being used as the javascript framework behind the e-commerce
system Merconis.**

**However, LSJS can be used without Merconis and already is being used this way in a couple
of web applications. Since at this time we can't offer support for LSJS unless it's
used in a Merconis project, standalone usage is currently not recommended.**

**In the future we might actively promote standalone usage of LSJS, so if you are
interested in using it, we'd definitely like to hear from you.**

#

#### What is LSJS and what is it good for?
LSJS helps you to write powerful JS applications and organize your application code in
a way that will make your work a lot easier.

Every app you write using LSJS has a main app file called "app.js". Your main app file
coordinates everything but is not responsible for the actual functionality. This is
where LSJS modules come into play.

_Example: Let's say you have a website with a nice slideshow effect, a table in which you can
sort elements using drag and drop and a news ticker which loads new entries via AJAX. In this case you would write three modules, e.g. "my-slideshow", "fancy-table", "new-ticker".
In your main app file you would load these modules but the slideshow functionality etc. is
completely located in your modules._

A module is not only a single JS file. It's a folder holding separate JS files for your
models, the view, the controller and of course the templates.

Organizing everything in well structured files and folders makes things easy for you but
of course LSJS doesn't deliver your application to the browser like this. LSJS comes
with a binder script which combines everything in one single file and it also optimizes,
minimizes and caches it.

Besides the powerful templating engine, LSJS offers you an MVC architecture, bi-directional
data-binding, helpful core modules and much more.

#### How to use LSJS
The following explanation can easily be followed with the little example projects
located in the "examples" folder.

To use LSJS on a website it is necessary to load the LSJS core and at least one
LSJS app.

There are two ways in which LSJS can be loaded. Which one you use depends on whether or not your
website is rendered using PHP.

##### Using LSJS in a PHP context
If the website is rendered using PHP, the binderController script of LSJS can and should be instantiated
and used to render the LSJS output file and the path to this output file should then be referenced
in the src attribute of a script element. When instantiating the binderController, the arguments
defining what to load etc. are passed to the constructor as an array.

Example _00 shows how this works.

Please open: http://yourdomain.com/assets/lsjs/examples/_00/index.php

##### Using LSJS in a non-PHP context
 
If you can't use PHP to render and include LSJS as shown before, you can still use LSJS.
In this case you have to reference binder.php as the src of a script element and provide all
arguments as GET parameters.

Example _01 shows how this works.

Please open: http://yourdomain.com/assets/lsjs/examples/_01/index.html

Please note: The path to the app has to be specified relative to the location of
binder.php. Therefore the path would probably beginn with at least some of those: "../"

Although referencing the path to the app is in no way a security risk because the server
never executes any files at the referenced location but only combines them and delivers
them as plain JS code, some server protection systems (e.g. BitNinja) might find
URLs that contain something like "../../../../" suspicious and block the request or
even the user's IP after several attempts to load the URL. To prevent this, binder.php
supports a "directory up alias". So, in the "pathToApp" parameter, "../" can be wrote
as `_dup1_` ("dup" stands for "directory up" and the following number stands for the
number of steps we want to go up). Therefore, `_dup_4` would mean `../../../../`.

##### Using the debug mode
The argument `debug=1` activates the debug mode which allows us to find out the exact
location of any template file used when generating the combined LSJS output.

This is especially useful if we use a third party LSJS app whose output we want to modify.
In order to be able to modify output, we first need to find the template that is
responsible for the output and then we can modify that output using the update-safe
customization technique provided by LSJS.

With the debug function activated, comments indicating which part of the output was
created by which template will be added to the HTML output generated by LSJS. Like this:

`<!-- BEGIN LSJS TEMPLATE: modules/messageBox/templates/main.html/main.html -->`  

and
  
`<!-- END LSJS TEMPLATE: modules/messageBox/templates/main.html/main.html -->`

##### Using app customization
If we use a third party LSJS app on our website, we might want to change its look or
behaviour but we can't (or at least we definitely shouldn't) change the original
app code because future updates would be a real problem or even become impossible.

Therefore, LSJS offers an easy way to customize the modules of an app.

Just like the path to an app can be specified as an argument, by using the argument
`pathToAppCustomization`, the location of customized versions of the app modules can be specified.

The given customization path needs to point to a directory which contains the
customized files in exactly the same structure as in the original app.

When combining the app code, LSJS will look for customized files and replace the
respective parts of the original code accordingly. It is even possible to add new
templates, models or even complete modules by putting them into the customization
folder.

Take a look at example _02 to see how this works.

In example _02 we have a very simple app that comes with one module "helloWorld"
which only prints "Hello World!" to the screen using a template "main.html".

Example _02 doesn't only have the app folder but also another folder called
"appCustomization" which holds the customized template. By referencing the path
to the customization folder in the argument `pathToAppCustomization`, the customization
is applied.

Please open: http://yourdomain.com/assets/lsjs/examples/_02/index.html

You will already see the modified output.

The module's controller is also customized and prints `customized controller works in module "helloWorld"`
to the console.

Even the main app file, app.js, is customized and prints "customized app.js works"
to the console.

Open the example's index.html and remove the argument `pathToAppCustomization`
to see what the module originally did.

If you switch between the original and the customized version, take a look at the
generated HTML source and see how the location of the template that we can see
due to the activated debug mode changes.

##### Using core module customization
Customizing core modules in an update-safe way basically works as customizing app
modules which was described earlier in this document.

Using the argument `pathToCoreCustomization`, the folder containing the customized
files can be specified. This folder needs to contain a folder called "modules" in
which customizing works exactly the same way as it does with app modules.

Please open example _03 to see it in action: http://yourdomain.com/assets/lsjs/examples/_03/index.html

#### Using the LSJS templating system
LSJS comes with a powerful templating system which is designed especially for people who
like the way that PHP code can be used to create HTML output and want the same, easy way
to create HTML output with JS.

LSJS templates are HTML files in which you can embed JS code like this

```
<div>
    <?
    var	i,
        str_text = 'Hello template!';
    
    for (i = 0; i <= 5; i++) {
        ?>
        <h3>This template says: <?= str_text =?></h3>
        <?
    }
    ?>
</div>
```

You've probably never seen this in JS but in PHP this is standard:

```
<div>
    <?php
    $str_text = 'Hello template!';
    
    for ($i = 0; $i <= 5; $i++) {
        ?>
        <h3>This template says: <?= str_text ?></h3>
        <?php
    }
    ?>
</div>
```

There's not much to know about the syntax in LSJS templates:

- `<?` begins a JS code block
- `?>` ends a JS code block
- ```<?= 'some text or some ' + variable ?>``` prints some text or some variable

_Hint: Since LSJS templates will be transformed into regular JS code string
concatenations by binder.php you have to escape single quotes if you want to use
them inside a template:_

```<p>This won\'t be a problem</p>```

```<p>But this doesn't work</p>```

##### Template includes
Templates can be included in other templates. There are four possible ways of doing this:

```
<div data-lsjs-replaceWithTemplate="sub01"></div>
```

or

```
<div data-lsjs-replaceWithElement="arg.__view.el_replacement01"></div>
```

or

```
/*
 * tplOutput can be used to output a rendered template in another template like this:
 */

<?= this.tplOutput({name: 'templatexyz', arg: {str_someValue: str_value}}) =?>
```

or

```
/*
 * This inserts the subtemplate in the main template when the template is converted into
 * actual JS code in the binder's template converter on the PHP side. Therefore, using this
 * including technique, you have full access to all variables that are available in the
 * main template even from the subtemplate.
 */

{{template::templatename}}
```

#### Hook Functions 

The purpose of hook functions is to attach to an existing point in the core code and execute project-specific logic. 

To enable this, numerous points have been placed in the core code, like
```
lsjs.hooks.callHook('[EVENT_NAME]', this, this);
```
where a potential hook can be called. 

In custom development, hooks for a specific event must be registered by providing the registration function along with the event and the actual function to be executed.
```
lsjs.hooks.registerHook('EVENT_NAME', this.[FUNCTION_NAME].bindWithOriginal(this));
```

##### Function Binding & Repeated Registration 

The initial intention was to use .bind on the hook function to create a new function that is bound to an object. 

It turned out that functions created with .bind (a boundFunctionObject) cannot be uniquely identified within the registerHook function. 

This led to new copies of the same function being saved for an event during repeated calls to the custom start-up procedure. Consequently, the hook function was executed multiple times. 

Since the registration function ran again after every Ajax request, a new hook execution was triggered for EVERY registration (e.g., 4 reloads -> 5 calls!).

##### Solution 

To prevent the same function from being repeatedly added for an event, the bound function had to be made comparable, which is only possible via the original function. 

Through a procedure known as a "Monkey Patch", a new method named bindWithOriginal is added to the global Function.prototype object. This method builds upon the standard .bind method but additionally stores the original function in an internal mapping list (a WeakMap). 

The registerHook function can now use this internal WeakMap (mapBoundToOriginal) to determine the original function of a given bound function, enabling a unique comparison.

##### What if a function needs to be called repeatedly? 

If this unlikely case occurs, it was decided that this should be handled on the custom development side. At that point, the need for repetition is known and can be managed. One approach would be to create a wrapper (encapsulation) for the function that needs to be called multiple times. 

#### Minifier
By default, LSJS minifies its output in order to optimize page loading speed.
This option can be deactivated because during development you probably don't want
to use it.

Add the argument `no-minifier=1` to deactivate the minifier.

#### Cache

Caching works automatically in LSJS. Changes to the LSJS source and the arguments that
define what is rendered how, will be detected and if there are changes, a new output file will
rendered.